.TH FORM 1 "2018-10-04"
.SH NAME
FORM \- Symbolic manipulation system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B form
.RB [
.IR options 
]
.IR inputfile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
FORM is a symbolic manipulation system. The \fBform\fR command reads a text file
(which should have a name that ends with the extension \fB.frm\fR) containing
definitions of mathematical expressions as well as statements that tell it how
to manipulate these expressions. It is widely used in the theoretical particle
physics community, but it is not restricted to applications in this specific
field.
.PP
\fBtform\fR is the threaded version using POSIX Threads.
.PP
\fBparform\fR is the multiprocessing version using MPI.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR "-c"
Error checking only. Notice that this will not work properly if there are conditionals in the
preprocessor phase that depend on results obtained at earlier stages of the program.
.TP
.BR "-d, -D"
Next argument/option is the name of a preprocessor variable that will be defined before the
run starts. A specific value can be assigned with the syntax
\fB-d\fR\ \fIVARIABLENAME\fR=\fIVALUE\fR.
The
default value is 1.
.TP
.BR "-f"
Output goes only to log file.
.TP
.BR "-F"
Output only to log file. Further like \fB-L\fR or \fB-ll\fR.
.TP
.BR "-h"
Wait for some key to be touched before finishing the run. Basically only for some old window
based systems.
.TP
.BR "-I"
Next argument/option is the path of a directory for include, procedure and subroutine files.
.TP
.BR "-l"
Make a regular log file.
.TP
.BR "-ll, -L"
Make a log file without intermediate statistics.
.TP
.BR "-M"
Put the PID (process identifier) in the name of the temporary files. This makes for longer
names, but gives a better guarantee of uniqueness. If a file with the created name exists
already it will be overwritten. This option is for when several instances of FORM are started
at nearly the same time as can happen from minos or make (with the make -j option).
.TP
.BR "-p"
Next argument/option is the path of a directory for input, include, procedure and subroutine
files.
.TP
.BR "-pipe"
Indicates that FORM is started up as the receiving end of a pipe. Action will be taken to
set up the proper communication channels.
.TP
.BR "-q, -si"
Quiet option. Only output expressions are printed.
.TP
.BR "-R"
Recover from a crash.
.TP
.BR "-s"
Next argument/option is the path of a directory for a setup file.
.TP
.BR "-S"
Next argument/option is the name of a setup file.
.TP
.BR "-t"
Next argument/option is the path of a directory for temporary files.
.TP
.BR "-ts"
Next argument/option is the path of a directory for temporary sort files.
.TP
.BR "-T"
Puts FORM in a mode in which the maximum totalsize is measured and printed at the end of
the program.
.TP
.BR "-v"
Only the version will be printed. The program terminates immediately after it.
.TP
.BR "-w"
This should be followed immediately by a number without any space. The number
indicates the number of worker threads for \fBtform\fR. All other versions of
FORM ignore this parameter.
.TP
.BR "-W"
Turn on the wall-clock time mode in the statistics.
.TP
.BR "-z"
The number following is a timelimit for the program in second.
.TP
.BR "-Z"
Removes the \fB.str\fR file on crash, whatever its contents. Under
ordinary circumstances at a crash a \fB.str\fR file will not be removed if
it has a nonzero content.
.TP
.BR "-y"
Run only the preprocessor and dump its output.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fBFORMPATH\fR
The directory in which FORM will look for procedures and header files, assuming it cannot
find them in the current directory.
.TP
\fBFORMTMP\fR
The directory in which FORM will make its temporary files.
.TP
\fBFORMTMPSORT\fR
The directory in which FORM will make its temporary sort files.
.TP
\fBFORMSETUP\fR
The full path and name of a setup file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
\fBhttps://www.nikhef.nl/~form/\fR
The FORM home site.
.TP
\fBhttps://github.com/vermaseren/form/\fR
The repository on GitHub.
